Source recording:
https://projectportal.nc.gov/project-assets/dncr-economic-impact/dncr-economic-impact-info-session-recording-2026-03-31.mp4

Transcription source:
whisperweb.dev

Transcript:
Okay. I didn't seem to kick you off. All right. Well, welcome. My name is David Yokum. I'm the two scientists at the also state budget and management. I'm going to be a little bit of an NC today for the session. In a moment, I'm going to hand it over to Bailey and Anna Elizabeth for really the meat and potatoes. We're going to talk about the project opportunity with the Department of Natural and Cultural Resources, where they've got a question about how the economic impact of their different sites and programs can be estimated. Before I jump into that, I thought I would give just a quick minute or two of context about both the Project Portal itself, which is a new resource, as well as kind of the thoughts for the run of the show for our hour together today. And so to start with the first one, the Project Portal, which presumably you're here, so you have seen it and looked at it. It is a website, of course, but it's really a process associated with on the back end that is meant to be a mechanism for agencies to kind of identify and refine some sort of a priority question that they have that could benefit from partnership with researchers, nonprofits, other community members across the state, where we could bring together a team of individuals that could help really make sure we're approaching that question in the most robust way and put together the right kinds of technical skills and muscle to answer it to them be able to feed, with learned back into the policymaking process, the programmatic operations process ultimately to try to make those things work better for us in state as North Carolinians. And the project portal as a concept, it's recognizing that depending on the need and the agency and the partners, what a partnership team needs to look like can be pretty variable. And so the websites emit to be flexible so that what's needed for a team can kind of be put together dynamically. There might be everything from kind of pro bono help to formal contracts and everything in between. And one of the key stages early on in the process once you've kind of got something posted on here is to actually do an information session like the one we're about to do now. And so to say something about the run of show, what I'm gonna do in a moment is pass it over to Anna Elizabeth and Bailey, who are in the office of the secretary at the Department of Natural and Cultural Resources. They're gonna give kind of from their own words, a little bit of a recap of what the felt need is for the agency. This is a good moment to where if you've got some clarifying questions or things like that, I'm sure they'd be welcome me to kind of raise your hand or if to interrupt them right in the middle of it. But otherwise they'll probably go for about 10, 12 minutes or something like that with a recap. It will actually take a more facilitated moment to sort of stop and really explicitly bring everyone's attention to the floor to see what questions you have about the need, the types of constraints around when information is needed and why. And then use also a portion of the time for sort of collectively thinking about how we might approach the project. And so if he's never done one of these before, one of the things that's kind of fun about these infosessions is that there's, I felt need, there's maybe some thinking about how it could be approached. But many of you are experts in different kind of domains as you hear what's being described. You might have alternative ideas about how to even think about the problem, what kind of methods might be used. There might be things we're not even known to ask for in other words. And so just to say it really explicitly, we welcome that kind of thinking, doesn't need to be a super sharp proposal. If you have a half-baked idea, feel free to throw it out there that can be kind of part of the magic of these conversations. And then of course we'll end it with some guidance on just next steps, right? And so for some of you if you continue to be interested in this project need and want to participate it, we'll lay out which you can do to sort of follow up and formally raise your hand that you want to partner and then we'll take some next steps from there. So that's the game plan for today before I pass it over to Anna Elizabeth and Bailey. I'll pause for just a half second if anybody has any quick questions about just the logistics of the hour. just the logistics of the hour. All right, we'll see, not admission analyst with Baker and Bailey Butler. You can see along the screens. They both work in the office of the secretary, Bailey's a policy director and is a policy analyst there. And guys, I'll pass it over to you all now. - All right, thank you so much. As David mentioned, we are policy shop at the Department of Natural and Cultural Resources. My name is Annalynne Baker. I'm a policy analyst. And Bailey, I don't know if you're gonna do the second, but surely I'm Bailey Butler. I'm the policy analyst and Bailey, I don't know if you want to do the second, but sure I am and Bailey Butler. I'm the policy director for the department and we're in the office of the secretary and super excited to be talking with you all today. So I run through of our agenda. We'll first go through every cap of our agency and what it is that we do. We'll talk through the value proposition for this project, a bit more on the scope of the work, the data that we have available and are working on gathering, and then talk through a timeline of next steps and open it up to questions. So a little bit about the NCR Department of Natural and Cultural Resources. So our mission is that we enrich lives through education and stewardship of North Carolina's natural and cultural resources. And we touch all the corners of the state. So we have over 100 sites across North Carolina, which includes, we have 28 historic sites, 42 sites within our state park system, three aquariums along the coast. We have eight history museums, two art museums, three science museums, and of course our illustrious North Ternona-Sue, which is actually the largest natural areas zoo in the world. And so I think just to illustrate, if you're looking at this map, you're on the right. DNCR touches both urban and rural areas in the state were very expansive and impact a lot of different communities. - I'll pass it up to Bailey. - Great, so getting into the value proposition of why we're interested in this project, we know that our sites are economic anchors for many North Carolina communities, particularly rural communities. You think about our stake parks and our outdoor tourism economy, our historic sites and museums, the people travel all over to see. And with that, we're, oftentimes the top attractions list for when you're like, what to do in this town? Our sites are gonna pop up. However, we've never actually assessed to our knowledge at least a comprehensive look at the economic impact for these places in our state, with ND&CR and that impact both to our state and to local communities. We have had a few divisions like Aquariums or the Zoo or state parks have done their individual assessments, but we think that doing a really comprehensive look, especially right now, will help us both make the case for continued investments. So thinking about, we often are called in state government, the Department of Fine. We have all the cool stuff, right? But the fun stuff also comes with an economic value. And to look at it in a cost-benefit lens for strategic investment to the future. So we manage a ton of properties and a lot of places and really understanding where we could improve marketing in certain regions, how to really make the case in our budget request to the General Assembly for continued investment XYZ. For those sorts of asks, also for fundraising, it would be incredibly helpful for us to have some data and evidence to make those decisions about strategic investment that we just don't have right now. We know generally the tourism and economy in North Carolina, we have those numbers, but we don't have it for our sites specifically and we think it would be really valuable. So just to broadly go through the scope of this project and offer some really helpful examples of other economic impact analyses that we've been looking at. So we are sort of looking at two categories of deliverables for this project for like a minimum viable product. The first is a larger top-line assessment that broad strokes provides the economic impact of DNCR statewide. What are we bringing to this state? After that, we are looking for more detailed individual reports that are looking at all of our different sites to understand how we're impacting local economies. And that should include things like economic output, the number of jobs supported by our sites, visitor spending, and then local tax and state tax revenue that's being generated by our sites. I added and programs in parentheses because within the project portal posting, we did state sites and programs, and I think as we've been thinking about the last few weeks. That's sort of a large ask and we understand that we are already looking for, you know, more detailed analysis on 100 sites, including some of our programs that are also statewide. And so I think sites is sort of our must have and then, secondarily, looking at some of our programs is more of a nice to have. So just noting that. And if I could analyst it by programs, we need we have a lot of grant programs where we administer like the North side of Arts Council, for example, has formula grants that are given to nonprofits and all 100 counties, right? So we know that there's an economic impact to that as well. We have the Parks and Recreation Trust Fund. We'll get into that a little bit later, but beyond just our physical places, we also have many divisions within our agency that are investing funds into local economies. So we really would defer to y'all and would work with the researcher on, you know, how deep you to go on that next level of it as well. Yeah, thank you. So we have a couple examples of analysis that have been really interesting to look at. The first is the Florida State Parks Foundation and they have an annual compilation of economic impact of each of their individual parks, state parks, and that looks at visitation, those numbers, economic impact, as well as local jobs supported. And Bailey, can you drop that in the chat if you haven't already? Yeah, we have a link where you can take a look at some of those individual sort of fact sheets on individual parks. We also have a couple reports that have been produced internally, starting with this aquariums report that was done. In 2020, three taking a look at all three of our coastal aquariums and better understanding sort of total economic impact, jobs and tax revenues These are not this and the one that I'm about to mention after this are not publicly available But we would be more than happy to supply those to the researcher to take a look at and This is that second report And this was looking at a couple projects renovation that is currently underway at the Aquarium at Port Fisher and trying to basically establish a baseline to figure out what is our current economic impact and think more about what is the potential for impact post renovation. And what we like here also is sort of the graphic illustration and sort of this added glance understanding. And then getting more into the program side. This is a report on more of like the grant side of things more sector focused American for the arts and just looking at what is the impact of the arts economy and the state of North Carolina. All right passing the fact of daily on data. Yeah so with that we'll get into some of the data that we do have available for this project and to a survey we plan to undertake this summer. So we have monthly visitation data. We ask every site to report their visitation data to us every month. There is a variation in methodology of how our divisions collect that information. So some historic sites may do like a clicker, state parks may do cars passing over and then there's a multiplier. The science museum has people going through their door and there's a sister there. So it really varies across and we can get that information to you as well. We also have operational budgets for our sites. We have a lot of longs for all of our site locations looking at geographic differences. We have a dashboard and underlying data for Grant awards by program and county and which I'll show you what that looks like in a moment. There's visit and see county tourism data can link to our lot longs and then there's the survey project that we are going to undertake. This is a look and we can drop a link for this in the chat at our grant program snaf. So if you are interested in looking at our grants, this is in 2025. It's a power BI dashboard that our team built and we have many, many grant programs from libraries to updated water and all sorts of things and you can basically it's sorted by county and the database. So if you're interested in grant programs, we certainly do have location some geography based data for that. - And Bailey, there's a question in the chat from Sarah about the procurement data and wondering if it's possible to provide the supplier zip code for procurement data? - I'm wondering, could you elaborate a little bit on what you mean by procurement data? Sure. So when you run something like the zoo, you're purchasing all sorts of things from different kinds of vendors and suppliers. And one of the things that affects your ultimate economic impact is how much of that you're actually purchasing and sourcing locally. So if you can just tell us, purchase amount vendor, vendor zip code, then that helps us figure out how much of it is actually in state activity versus activity that just immediately disappears from the state. Okay, great. I'll write that down. I think that is something we could pull. I do know we have Okay, great. I'll write that down. I think that is something we could pull. I do know we have like Hub spend who's working under utilize businesses data readily available as and we collect that. So I think we probably do collect code data as well, but for Hub spend we are. We have by far the highest Hub spend end of any state agency in government and we're really proud of that. So we do look at things like that for sure. Great question. So getting into visitation data, this is a very draft draft mock-up of a dashboard that I've been working on to better understand our visitation data. We kind of surprisingly currently don't collect demographic information across the board. It really is just this this count data that we have uniformly across all of our divisions. So we we have all that that we can give to you and we are looking at visuals like you know top months by visitation and that's going to vary. When you have the zoo, the top month is like April kind of shoulder season, state parks, it's going to be more June-July aquariums, July, etc. So that's sort of interesting to look at. And we are the survey project that we are undertaking. This summer will hopefully reveal a lot more of that demographic data that we are just lacking right now as a department. We want to be a lot more robust. Good next slide. So we are planning on deploying a survey this summer to all of our sites and the timing of this and this project is really key because we want to make sure that for whatever team next slide, don't go to the bell. And the next slide, it will have the questions that we're thinking of right now and we can send you the full thing. There's a screenshot of part of it of what we're thinking right now based on other things we've looked at, but we love feedback on that. We'd like to deploy it from Memorial Day to Labor Day, like really the peak season for most of our places. And we have ideas on design of how to best deploy it. You know, is it mix of clipboards and QR codes, like what days do we randomize to do it, et cetera, but we would love your feedback on the best practices there. Also, if you have a preferred software for collection, we readily have Microsoft Forms and DotForm and SmartShee available, but if there's something else you'd rather us use, we're open to that too. So we would love to be able to decide all of those things relatively quickly so that we can deploy it by Memorial Day. And to make sure that the information we're collecting is actually useful to you. So within that, if you go to the next slide for some of the questions, we're asking for things like zip code, which we don't currently collect right now, you know, how people heard about the site, how many people are your traveling party, etc. One thing that I think it will be hopefully interesting to you all as you dig into economic impact.
